RESURRECTION ERTUGRUL
THE STORIES AND CHARACTERS DEPICTED
HERE WERE INSPIRED BY OUR HISTORY
NO ANIMALS WERE HARMED DURING
THE FILMING OF THIS PRODUCTION
Be patient, my soul.
Don’t expect a remedy to your suffering.
Don’t throw yourself into a fire
and expect your lover to save you.
Pearls of tears weep through
the mother of pearl of your eyes.
Don’t expect anything from
the beloved with coral pearl lips.
Come, do not rejoice...
...and cry, poor nightingale
Don’t expect anything from
the beloved with a mouth like the rose garden.
My Esma? My beautiful eyed and debonair woman...
Why are you so down?
What is it that bothers you?
Didn’t you like the poem?
Is it possible for me to not like a poem
from that enchanting voice of yours?
Is it possible for me to fall
into the darkness...
...while you shine my night by being here?
Don’t you know how much I dream of you and
wait for the time that I will come together with you?
So?
What is the trouble that bothers you then?
Tell me.
I’m just keeping my silence being afraid of
exceeding my authority, my Sultan.
My Esma.
Tell me.
-Sahabeddin.
-I don’t understand. Sahabeddin?
Did he do something to you?
-Did he...
-No, not like that.
I am only a loyal and
a trusted servant in his eyes.
But this is my fear.
I fear that I might have sinned
because of him, my Sultan.
He trusts me more than anyone else.
All the secrets he hides from others,
he shares with me.
He didn’t even hide
the assassin from me, my Sultan.
I was taking food to him every day.
But today...
...the man...
...died with foam
coming out of his mouth.
I think he was poisoned, my Sultan.
Why didn’t you tell me, Esma?
I was afraid.
-And I am still afraid.
-What are you afraid of?
If Sahabeddin...
...poisoned that man with
the food I took there...
What if I gave that poison...
...and sinned by killing him?
It is alright, do not worry.
My Sultan...
...I knew that he was not an
innocent man...
...but why didn’t he punish him himself?
Why did he hide it from me?
I have not even harmed
an ant until this day.
-You know my heart.
-Alright.
-I can’t even step on an ant.
-It is alright.
May God forgive me.
What if I sinned and...
...killed him?
It is alright. Do not worry.
It is over.
Do not worry.
My daughter...
...looks like the moon.
Her eyebrows are like...
...a stretched bow.
When she waves her hair...
...she looks like a pony with a long mare.
There will be a feast soon...
...her face will shine up the room.
She is just like a son...
...who will be a valiant Bey.
Hayme?
Mother Hayme? Mother Hayme, wake up.
-What happened, my girl?
-Do now panic, mother, it is good news.
Suleyman Shah called your name.
My Bey? My Bey?
My Bey, I am here.
-Did he say anything else?
-No, mother.
He only said your name.
My girl, may God bless you.
You have been torn apart here with us.
You did not stay with your sister...
...you set on the road with us.
Please do not say that, mother Hayme.
I see Suleyman Shah as my father as well.
He has every right over me and my sister.
Moreover...
...I will be his bride soon.
I will call him father.
I pray to God every time I see you two.
I pray to God for a life like
yours for Ertugrul and me.
When I learned that you found me suitable
for Ertugrul and wanted me as a bride...
...I was honored.
-Gokce.
It is late now.
You are very tired.
Go and sleep, my girl.
I am sorry, mother Hayme.
I was tactless.
-I only...
-Gokce.
Look, my girl. This is a matter of fate.
It’s not only up to my will.
Fate is what God has written for us.
Do you understand?
Go on, go, and rest for a bit. Come on.
Do not fear, my Shahzada.
You will not be subjected to this.
You come from noble blood.
Let my Turgut Aga go.
Royal people can’t grieve
for their slaves’ destiny.
They can only be worried about their purposes.
You cowards!
Kill me without playing around!
Your end will not be so easy, Turkmen.
You will beg...
...but you will live.
In a way I want you to.
I only have one life in which I trust my God.
I’m not afraid of you.
Sometimes people even afraid
of themselves.
If they don’t fear for themselves, they
fear for the lives of their loved ones.
Isn’t that so, Giovanni?
Oh, my brave son…
Don’t be confident about
your courage and youngness.
It’s not about being a hero.
There is no one here
other than God who can hear you.
Dear God...
...be my side and help me.
Each moment you feel desperate,
remember that God is the Greatest.
Repeat to yourself that He is the one who feeds
your hunger whenever you are in need.
You are here with God.
Do not forget this.
And be aware of the fact that you are here,
in the Madrasa al-Yusufiyya.
If you are to lose your faith
and be on your own...
...then will they turn you into a man
who is even afraid of himself.
I will succeed with this miserable Turk
where I failed with Giovanni.
How long do you think it will take
for him to give in, sir?
According to the methods in this book,
he can only resist for 40 days.
And then?
I was not aware of your arrival,
dear Thomas.
You are like the angel of death.
You showed up suddenly once again.
How are our guests?
They are resting in their quarters.
Are you going to be victorious
through the mice you put in dungeons?
Even I can barely understand you.
Dear Thomas...
...I do not stick my nose
in your business in Europe.
And you should not dwell
in the matters here.
That is your decision. I am merely
trying to convince our Holy Father...
...to a new Crusade.
I will find Ibn Arabi’s chest and
the sacred relics inside sooner or later.
This is a promise and
Lord's Son shall be my witness.
But I will not do it
with knights like Titus.
I will do it through people who think
they are still Turks but...
...I shall decide on what they shall be.
How will you accomplish this?
With an old Asian legend.
We will soon see the fruits of our labour.
The Vizier is as good as dead
for El Aziz now. Aleppo will remember...
...Sahabeddin as a traitor
who collaborated with the Crusaders.
And I will reveal this betrayal and become
His Highness Ameer’ s only trusted aide.
What about Ertugrul?
I mean Kayis...
...and their territory?
It will be resolved today, right?
Don’t you worry about it. El Aziz is
a puppet, which I hold the strings now.
Ertugrul will leave that palace
as a man who lost everything.
No, my friend. You are mistaken.
Ertugrul will understand
what he lost when he meets us.
I seek refuge in God from Satan, the Accursed one.
In the name of God, the Compassionate,
the Merciful.
Ya Sin
By the wise Qur’an
Ertugrul?
Truly you are of those sent…
Great God!
Ertugrul! Watch out!
Thank God. You are better now.
Father?
Father, where is Yigit?
Did something happen to Yigit,
where is my brother?
No, my dear girl. Nothing happened to him.
He is with the Alps.
Calm down, your wound might
start to bleed.
Where are we, father?
We reached Aleppo, my girl.
We are in a secure place.
Father, why is Yigit not with us?
I want to see my brother.
You will see him tomorrow, my girl.
Sleep now. You should sleep.
Sleep and rest.
Dear God...
...spare these innocents.
Bring Yigit to us safe and sound.
The servant told the truth.
The man is indeed poisoned, your highness Ameer.
Akcakoca, what kind of a disaster
is this plague?
Didn’t we kill all those sheep
to fend it off?
We did, my Bey. We did but...
...this is a child’s doing. She couldn’t
sacrifice her lamb and hid it.
We set on the road tomorrow.
What will happen to these people?
My Bey, there is nothing we can do for them.
In a few days, they will...
Will we leave them here?
I will stay with them.
Bey, I know there is nothing I can do...
...but I can relieve their pain
for a while.
Akcakoca...
...there are some who don’t want to
migrate. I need to talk to them.
If they stay here, it would be a disaster.
They need to know that no matter what.
May God make it easy for you.
Your highness Ameer.
I deliver you the greetings of Kayi...
...and the gratitude of my father Suleyman Shah
for the new land.
There have been rumors...
...about your tribe.
Is there anything you would like
to tell me Ertugrul?
I talked with your Vizier
Sahabeddin Tugrul as well...
...these rumors are lies.
Templars who are not fond of the alliance
between us attacked our tribe.
Those who tried to spread disease
in our tribe and the people...
...who spread these rumors are the same.
You are lying, Ertugrul.
The enemy who you think is beyond your
borders are actually inside your palace.
You are not aware.
Your highness Ameer...
What are you doing here, Nasir?
Where is His Highness Ameer?
Guards.
How dare you?
Inform El Aziz immediately.
Calm down, Vizier.
This is actually the order of
His Highness Ameer.
He personally wants to question you.
Is Kurdoglu not here?
I do not know where he is, my Bey.
He told me to pack his belongings
and make them ready for the caravan.
He is to solve an important matter
and join the caravan later.
He will join the caravan you say.
So Kurdoglu Bey will migrate with us.
Alpargu, tell me. Your Bey does not
do anything without informing you.
I really do not know, my Bey.
He only said that it was
about Suleyman Shah...
...that was all.
The cart shook him up more than
we expected, mother Hayme.
You are right, Master Demir.
It is good that we stopped to rest.
The horses will have a chance to
rest as well.
May God give him health,
so that he can walk while entering Aleppo.
If God permits.
-Hayme.
-My Bey!
My Bey!
My Bey?
Come on, my girl.
Give our Bey some space
to have some fresh air.
Kurdoglu.
Tell me, why is the Ameer not coming?
I really do not know why His Highness
is acting like this, my Vizier.
I have insisted repeatedly
but he did not want to talk.
He just assured you...
...of an absolute fair hearing...
...and that will be under my responsibility.
You may leave, Nasir.
Dear God...
...I am ready to be hurt,
but don’t let the justice be hurt.
Do not give the tyrants an opportunity.
Oh, Mighty God, the tyrants shall kill me
if they want...
...but your order which will exalt your name...
...shall continue forever.
Turkmen valiant.
Ertugrul Bey.
You won’t regret it if you turn around.
Effendi Titus says: “The eagle is in
the cage, now it is the wolf’s turn.”
Great God!
Tell me? Whose dog are you?
Where is my brother?
Where is the Shahzada?
Speak!
It won’t be so easy this time!
Hamza...
...are the Alps ready for
the security of the migration route?
They are ready, my Bey.
Ilyas Fakih...
...did you talk with the families of
the people who have to stay behind...
...because of this plague?
I did, my Bey.
I tried to comfort them but it is hard.
May God never test anyone
with their children.
And if He does, may He give them the patience
of Prophet Ayub.
Amen.
Akcakoca...
...would this plague spread outside
the confinement?
My Bey, these things cannot be known
by looking from the outside...
...but it seems that this plague
is not spreading outside.
If you see it fit as well...
...there is nothing else holding us back
from the journey.
I see it fit. We shall set off.
Then...
...for our loved ones in the graves
and for our babies in their cots...
...as an Oguz tribe,
we shall walk to our new homeland.
The tribe is in enough turmoil as it is,
why do you summon me here?
I know...
...Kurdoglu did not manage to kill
Suleyman Shah.
Do not feel sorrow, Selcan. It is soon.
You shall revenge the death of
your father Alpsungur.
Suleyman Shah’s death
will be from your hands.
But first, there is another trouble
you need to get rid of.
-What trouble is that?
-Plague!
The whole tribe shall be infected soon.
You have to save yourself
and your son from this disease.
The ill are isolated. The animals
are burnt! What are you saying?
It is not over yet.
This evil shall take many more lives.
This evil does not have a remedy.
There is nothing else but confinement.
I do have a cure.
You should drink this every day.
It will protect you, your husband
and most importantly...
...your son from this evil.
What happened?
What were you doing here, Kurdoglu?
I rode my horse without rest
for the safety of our Bey.
Thank God, I made it in time.
My blood brother, my life brother.
Was it just a feeling, Kurdoglu?
How did you know that something
like this might happen to our Bey?
Mother Hayme, this dog called
Bozok came to me a few days ago...
...asking me about the
death of his father.
He heard Gundogdu accusing me
in the headquarters.
He saw me as the killer of his father.
He put a knife at my throat.
I still pitied him thinking that he is in
deep sorrow, he was a boy of this tribe...
...and forgave this impudence.
But when Gundogdu mentioned that
the Bey’s tent was cut with a knife...
...God forbid,
implied that he was attacked...
...I thought about how some people might
have whispered something in his ear.
Then I could not stay back, so I got on
my horse and rode until it was exhausted.
What happened to my tribe in two days?
Traitors have embarked, Alps have
separated and everything has fallen apart.
ALEPPO
You have not even blinked an eye
the whole night.
I have caused great distress
with the news I gave you.
You are not the reason for the matter.
Besides, thanks to you we have found out
the one who was conniving against me.
I've served our Vizier for years,
he is a very good man.
He was on the right path for years but...
-But the important thing is...
...not to be on the righteous path but
not to stray for even for a second.
Alright, Sahabeddin Tugrul
has served our state well for years...
...but this does not mean that we shall
turn a blind eye on the things he did.
Because of the things I shared, I feel
responsible for the fate of your uncle.
Sahabeddin Tugrul’s fate shall be
whatever he deserves.
I said that whoever the traitor it is
that has colluded with the Templars...
...I would hang him of the bastions of the tower.